ATOM is an implementation of an order driven financial market like EuroNEXT/NYSE. These markets rely on the exchange of orders that are automatically matched against each others through double auction books. Thus, an order-driven market involves traders that send orders to a market, a market that gathers several double auction orderbooks, one per asset traded on the market. Since the advent and fast development of electronic markets, order-driven markets have offered more and more orders types even if the most current are market orders (buy/sell at the current price), limit order (buy/sell at a given price) and cancel order (to retract an order that has not yet been matched).


###Order-driven markets concepts in ATOM

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Entity</th>
        <th>Role</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td> MarketPlace </td>
        <td>Set of OrderBook. <br/> Each agent must be listed in a MarketPlace to be able to trade. Usually in ATOM, you have one MarketPlace containing several OrderBook and Agent.</td>
    </tr>
    
    <tr>
        <td>OrderBook</td>
        <td>
            Object that receive orders and fix prices.<br/>
            Each time a human being or an artificial agent sends an order, the OrderBook records it and try to execute it. This latter operation delivers a price. If the new order cannot be matched with pending orders it is kept "as is", waiting for a counterpart. In ATOM you can have several OrderBook running simultaneously, which allows to build arbitragist agents, speculators who seek to take advantage of price differences on various assets.
        </td>
    </tr>
    
    <tr>
        <td>Order</td>
        <td>
            Represent an offer to sell or buy an asset. <br/>
            In ATOM several kind of orders can be used: LimitOrders, MarketOrders, CancelOrders, UpdateOrders and many others (see <a href="http://atom.univ-lille1.fr/ruleBook.pdf">EURONEXT RULE BOOK 2009</a> for a detailed description of each order). Agents, both artificial or human beings, can send orders to a MarketPlace. To emit an order, one just have to use the appropriate order class and fulfil the associate constructor.
        </td>
    </tr>
    
    <tr>
        <td>Agent</td>
        <td>
            Represent an entity that sends orders to any OrderBook of the MarketPlace. <br/>
            Agent can receive a behaviour or not, depending upon the level of sophistication the experimenter wants to have in his system. If the agent does not have any behaviour, it will just be able to send orders that have been defined elsewhere in the system (it could simply be a real-world order flow for example). If the Agent have a behaviour, it will be able to manage itself the orders, send them to the MarketPlace and let these orders evolve in the simulation. In that last case (agents gifted with a specific behaviour), frequently, the market will ask all agents whether they want to send an order or not.
        </td>
    </tr>
    
    
    
    <tr>
        <td>Exec</td>
        <td>Represent a fully executed order : buyer and seller are in agreement and the transaction is completed</td>
    </tr>
    
    <tr>
        <td>Price</td>
        <td>Price generated by two orders with the same price for the same share. Here, the quantity can be different in the two orders : only the price matters</td>
    </tr>
    
    <tr>
        <td>Day</td>
        <td>Represent a day in a stock exchange</td>
    </tr>
    
    <tr>
        <td>Tick</td>
        <td>A Tick represents a speacking slot : Agents can place order only when a Tick appears and a day has several Ticks. Agents can also place order before the begenning of the day and just after it's end.</td>
    </tr>   
</table>
